Hey Michael. Hey. Hello everybody in the chat or watching it later. Thanks for showing up.
So shall we just kick it off. Let's do it. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we
deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 317 recorded
January 3rd 2023 and I am Brian Okken. Hello I'm Michael Kennedy. Welcome to 2023. How
It's very exciting.
It's a lot like 2022, but I think maybe a little more optimism.
We'll see.
Yeah, but I've had one extra shower in 2020 since 2022.
So yeah, I mean, I do.
Do you remember 2022?
It just feels like a few days ago.
It honestly, it really flew by.
Yeah.
I mean, we, we, we stayed inside for like two years and then like, Hey, well look, we
get to go outside.
Oh, time flies when you're not just stuck inside.
I even actually rode a bicycle the other day.
Nice.
Oregon said we're gonna rain for two weeks, so.
- Of course, of course it did.
- Yeah.
Well, let's kick it off.
What do you got for us first?
- All right.
Let's talk about the Stack Overflow 2022 Developer Survey.
Now, this is one of the better surveys
that gives you a pulse on the developer community.
It's, you know, we do the PSF survey every year,
and that one I think is really well done.
This one's interesting
because it's not just Python, obviously.
It's all of Stack Overflow people.
- Yeah.
- And it's really, really long, notice the scroll bar.
So I'm gonna try to go through these
and just hit on some of the high points for us.
All right, so they did that as well for us at the top here.
They kind of summarize some little things
you can call out and then jump to other sections.
Saying, learning to code online increased by 10%
year over year. However, respondents older than 45 years are most likely to have learned
from books, whereas the youngins are more likely to use some kind of online course or
YouTube video or something along those lines. Does that surprise you?
>> No.
- Yeah, me either.
So last year they said we saw Git rise
as a fundamental tool of software development.
So like if you are a software developer,
you basically just need to know Git.
Surprisingly, this year they said,
that's Docker this year,
increasing from 55% usage to 69% usage.
And I kind of feel like the hype and the heyday of Docker
was actually a couple of years ago.
And I hear a little bit less, maybe it's just less hype,
but it's just more like, yeah, we're just using it.
But I don't know that,
that was surprising and interesting to me.
- I'm using it more in places where I didn't use to.
- Like what?
- Build chains for just to keep them consistent.
We're just, and it isn't even a cloud thing.
It's just having, being able to have
a consistent build system, no matter what machine you're on.
- Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
- CI systems are utilizing Docker more.
- Sure.
I've heard of even people using Docker
to sort of manage and deploy,
is that how you would phrase it?
Little apps to Raspberry Pis
for like home automation and stuff.
- Really?
- I'm sure there would be more of that
if you could actually get a Raspberry Pi,
but you know, this is more of a theoretical.
who already have the Raspberry Pi.
One of my favorite sections of this
is the most loved, most dreaded, and most wanted.
- Yeah.
- Because it really tells you,
how do people feel about how things are now,
and how do they feel about where they're going?
What would they do if they were unencumbered by
their boss saying, "Nope, we're using this particular database,"
or nope, it's all Angular.
And you're on the team that does Angular,
so I don't care what you want, you're doing Angular.
And so Rust is on its seventh year
as the most loved language.
- Seven years?
Is it even seven years old?
- I know, I know, that's my thought as well.
But 87% of developers say they wanna continue using it.
Wow.
I mean, yeah, anyway, that's pretty interesting.
But it also Python and Rust are basically exactly tied
as the most wanted programming language.
That's cool.
- I can see that.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Phoenix, Phoenix is some web framework I've never heard of
that is apparently the most popular.
AngularJS, it continues into its third year
of being the most dreaded.
All right, what else?
Go ahead.
- Oh, just react.
I, yeah, is most wanted, but who knows?
- Yeah, exactly.
So some of these questions
and some of these phrasings and analyses
are super, super good and others are really bad.
So I'll try to highlight some of these.
So let me jump down here.
Well, I don't really care about the education stuff.
I mean, it tells you, education profile.
It tells you things like,
Yeah, there's an insane number of guys versus women.
- No, that's fine.
I just thought it was funny that you said
I don't care about education.
(laughing)
- Teacher, you know, leave the kids alone.
All right.
So no, like it's fine, but it's, you know,
people can check it out if they care about it, right?
Like there's stuff about the demographics,
like age and gender.
That is pretty interesting.
I wish some of these numbers were better.
like, yeah, it totally is. Right. But, you know, that's also not
news. So yeah, some of the most popular technologies here. Now,
I know, Brian, I might just be getting older and grumpy. But
when I look at this, there's like, it's almost all these
responses are broken into two segments, professional
developers, and learning to code people. And the default is to
take all those together and I guess that's the biggest picture,
but I don't know.
When I ever look at this, I'm just like,
professional developers tell me about this.
>> Yeah.
>> If you're on your third week of
a coding tutorial and that tutorial says use this,
how much does that really speak to the state of the community?
I don't think it.
>> Agreed.
>> So I'm checking. When I think about these,
I'm just going to check professional developer and if you
want the same numbers, you can do so as well.
So where are we?
We are on programming languages, scripting and markup.
JavaScript is definitely the most popular here.
This is one of those areas where I don't,
I think you need to phrase it a little bit different.
Let's see what the question exactly is.
Which programming languages have you done
extensive development work in over the year,
over the last year, okay?
I don't know how quite how to solve this problem,
but there's a ton of Python people who did JavaScript work.
- Yeah.
- There is a ton of C++ people who did SQL, right?
There's also Python people who did SQL.
So SQL ranks above Python,
but there's very few people whose job it is
as a developer to write SQL
and not use something else, right?
So that's--
- It's weird to have SQL even in there.
- Yeah, I know.
Well, HTML and CSS, right,
is like a little bit weirder as well.
And so I feel like it should say like,
what is your primary programming language?
Or something like, you know, something like that, right?
I feel like it's--
- It's kind of like favorite movie.
Like, what's your favorite movie, but not "Princess Bride"?
Other than that, what's your favorite movie?
- Yes, exactly, exactly.
So like, there's people who do Node.js and JavaScript
And that is what I think this top bar
where JavaScript is should represent.
But it's not plus everyone else, right?
Aggregated.
So I don't know, these are a little bit weird,
but I'll just go through the top.
- Yeah, back end.
So like, unless you're primarily just a front end developer,
what back end languages?
- Right, right.
Or maybe you're using Node on the back end,
but then other than that.
So JavaScript, number one.
HTML, top programming language, okay.
SQL, third most, and then Python, and then TypeScript.
So, you know, like a bunch of interesting ones.
And then you've got your VM,
garbage collected JavaScript,
Java and C# back there.
And then it starts to fall off pretty quick after that.
Down at the very bottom,
let's see the very bottom one is Crystal.
Okay.
And APL, oh my gosh.
APL.
APL is something.
All right.
Another one that's worth talking about is databases.
So we've got Postgres, MySQL, SQLite, SQL Server,
MongoDB as the top five.
So it's pretty clear that Postgres has the momentum.
Like MySQL was higher, and now Postgres is passing it,
but that's kind of going up here.
So this is which environments have you done extensive work in?
We'll also see that in like the loved versus dreaded section.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- And by the way, on the audience, Marco says,
I've already aged myself with that Pink Floyd reference.
Indeed.
All right, so cloud platforms, AWS,
I want to surprise you that AWS has over half
of the entire market.
- No.
- But only, it's only a smidge over half, it's 55, so.
- Yeah, exactly.
Web technologies, here's another one.
No, not this, this one's kind of okay,
but like for example, they've got Node.js,
but they don't have Python, right?
So I don't know, it's a little bit funky.
Like they've Node and Express and Express runs on Node,
whereas they have Flask and Django,
but they don't have the thing that Django and Flask run on,
which is, I don't know, anyway,
it's a little bit of a challenging one,
but Node and React are quite high up there.
Look at this artifact, this living fossil right here, Brian.
What's number three?
- jQuery.
- JQuery, you know it.
Dollar document ready, let's go.
All right.
- I learned jQuery a long time ago.
- Yeah, I still use a little bit of jQuery
if there's some site that's already using it.
I'm like, yeah, whatever, I'm just gonna put one handler
in here and not worry about it.
- FastAPI's on the list.
- Yeah, FastAPI's on the list.
Django and Flask are 14.6%, both.
FastAPI is 6% and going up.
FastAPI just actually had a Ruby on Rails,
which is pretty interesting.
- Wait, so Phoenix is down at 2.13%,
but I thought it was like--
- It's the most loved.
- Okay. - It's the most wanted.
I'm not, I looked at it, I'm not sure I agree with that,
but it's a web framework built on the Elixir language.
So there you have it.
And we'll see.
So yeah, another one here that's worth pointing out,
I'm not gonna go over too many more.
Other frameworks and libraries.
This one is pretty weird in terms of like the partition.
This is what I had in mind when I'm like,
there's something really weird about this.
- So .NET and NumPy in the same bucket.
- Exactly, so .NET is the equivalent of Python.
It's the equivalent of C++.
It's the equivalent of Ruby, right?
It's like a huge and broad.
And it's the thing that all the other stuff
in that ecosystem runs on, right?
ASP.NET or whatever.
And so they say, what other language do you work with?
Do you work, or other libraries,
Do you work with .NET or do you work with NumPy?
Or do you work with Panda?
There's no Python here, right?
And there's no Go and there's no, no, I don't know.
Like, it's just, it's, I feel like this just fully
is like out of place here.
So if you just go past that, the top two are NumPy
and Pandas, which by quite a good margin.
And then Spring for Java, React, Native for mobile
with JavaScript, Flutter, and, but then back to a bunch
Python libraries.
- Yeah, like PyTorch.
- Yeah, so Python actually ranks pretty high
in the other frameworks and libraries you might be using.
All right, let's just, let's jump to the loved, dreaded,
wanted section, and then that's probably enough.
People can check out the rest.
All right, so they've got this sort of,
you know, like what is driving the market,
greed versus fear type of thing.
And so they put each technology up,
and it's got a how much love versus how much hate
does this technology get in a single bar, which
is-- the graphics here are pretty nice.
So Rust, 86% love.
So people who use Rust really like Rust,
and they don't strongly dislike it.
It's probably a self-selecting group, right?
If you took, I don't know, JavaScript people
and told them they had to do Rust, they might not like it.
Rust people seem to really like Rust.
Elixir, I've never done anything with Elixir,
but it's also really high.
Closure TypeScript and Python is there
at about two thirds loved, one third dreaded,
I suppose, or not loved.
And you can see it goes down from there.
- Yeah, I kind of want to talk to those 32% of the people
and say, what is it that you don't like?
- Well, I agree.
I feel like there's a lot of people who end up,
So for example, if you look at just the third
that says they don't like it,
that's 11 times as many people using Elixir.
And that's two times as all the people using Rust.
So I think it's a little bit, you know, a scale thing, right?
Like, there's a bunch of people
who were working in one technology
and then they were told you're gonna do Python.
And some of them wanted that change
and some of them probably like, but I like C++
or I like whatever I'm doing.
And you know, they're unhappy to be in that situation.
So I imagine there's some of that going on here.
Where there's less people being moved into Elixir projects
unless they really want to,
'cause it's a pretty small group.
Anyway, there's that.
And then if you switch to the wanted though,
Python and Rust tie for number one in most wanted.
Along with TypeScript is showing very notable there.
- Yeah, nice.
- Yeah, last one we'll say databases, I suppose.
Postgres, most loved, least dreaded.
Redis, again, one of the things like,
does this really belong on this list?
Redis is cool.
It's mostly for caching and message queues,
not really as a standalone independent database.
So can it really be the most wanted database?
You technically, I know, can make it work that way,
but it's not really built for it.
So I don't know.
Anyway, Redis is number two, whether it belongs there or not
and then MongoDB and SQLite and so on.
in terms of wanted, Postgres and Mongo.
- Nice.
- Not too much of a change.
All right, I think that's pretty much it.
I'll give just a quick shout out to some graphics
that are down here that people can play with
if you really wanna go explore.
Brian, check this out.
Like, which one is this?
This database one's probably fair.
So there's this giant, I don't know what section is this.
It is work with versus what to work with.
So, it has this wheel.
And as you move around the wheel, it'll show you, for example,
5,000 people who worked with Postgres want to work with SQLite.
8,000 people who work with MongoDB want to stay with it.
Whereas 7,000 people who work with MySQL want to move to MongoDB.
And similarly, it shows you all these interesting trends and flows
from this technology to that technology.
Like if you go up here to the language one,
you go to pros, and you click on C#,
it's pretty interesting because like,
the C# people, they wanna go to TypeScript
or Python or JavaScript or HTML,
but they don't wanna go to Java.
Like there's no arc over to Java, right?
'Cause these are basically the same technology
with slight different trade-offs.
So if you wanted to be in Java,
you would just be in Java, I feel like.
- Yeah.
- You can sort of check out these flows and stuff.
So anyway, I think that's more than enough on this survey,
but people should go check it out.
There's a lot of data here and a lot of things to learn.
- So does that say HypeScript?
HypeScript?
- It doesn't fit on the screen, that's all.
- Oh, okay. - It's HypeScript.
Hype, yeah, there's just Y-P-E script, TypeScript.
With, yeah, it's just a scaling.
- Nice. - Yeah.
- Okay, so.
- Before we move on real quick, John out in the audience says
it's interesting that MySQL and MariaDB
are perceived so differently.
Yeah, that is true.
- Yeah, I don't know much.
I think that MySQL has a problem
that people used it a long time ago
and maybe it's different now,
but I mean, that's what I'm basing it.
My experience with MySQL is like all over 10 years ago.
So. - Yeah, same.
All right, what you got for us next?
- Well, I wanted to talk about Pepe,
our P, I don't know, it's a pepy.tech.
So I found out about this, who did I find?
From the person that wrote it, Petru Reres.
So we've talked about something similar.
What we've talked about before is PyPI download stats,
or pypistats.org.
And so I was like, well, what's different?
So Pepe does download stats for packages.
So what I'm showing, we're showing here is the,
the stats for pytest.
And what the PyPI stats does is it shows you a breakdown of
like, you've got the overall packages,
but then you can also look at downloads per Python two
versus three, and then major and minor versions of Python.
And so that's kind of interesting, but,
But I actually now after we're like so much far past
the two versus three split,
like I'm not even supporting two anymore.
So what I like is Pepe doesn't do that.
So Pepe is same stats are same for pytest.
What it's looking at is it grabs like the top handful.
So let's do the default.
I have it all customized right now.
So let's drop those off.
By default, it shows us the last few versions of pytest
plus all of the downloads for the last major one.
So all the 7X downloads.
And so the numbers are a little different
because we're not showing everything.
So right off the bat, I kind of like that
I'm just caring about the last few versions.
That's kind of nice.
And it also has a daily, weekly, monthly chart
so that you can kind of see trends going on, which is nice.
What I didn't realize at first is that you can select
different statistics.
So if I wanted to see everything on all versions,
I can just go ahead and type a star there.
I think that works.
Yeah.
- There you go.
- And then it does all of the downloads.
And then also when I just dropped that,
I don't know if you noticed,
but it shows all the different download stats already.
So you can kind of get a glimpse
of what you're gonna find right off the bat.
Now, going down through the chart,
we've got both a chart and a table
for when they grab the data.
And this split up of, I'm not looking at Python version,
I'm looking at version for the package that I care about,
or like, you know, possibly my package.
So I did this recently for pytest check
and I was thinking about it for pytest
of like which version should I support?
And clearly like most, like tons of people
have switched up to,
most people have switched to 7x already.
So yeah, I think it's perfectly fair game
to not support 6x pytest anymore.
So why not?
Anyway, so just a different take on download stats.
Plus it includes some cool badges
that if you wanna grab your, like add this to your repo
to say how many downloads per week or per month,
kind of neat.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
If you're maintaining some open source package,
you know, like, and it depends on something like this,
like pytest, you can quickly look at that
and make a call like, well, how important is it for me
to support this old version or how ready am I to move
to the new thing, adopt this feature that won't allow
older versions of Python or whatever it is
you're looking at, right?
Like, should we add types?
Well, that might not work on like, where is that?
Three, three and before.
Well, it's been a while.
- Well, like on pytest check, I've got a feature
that I'm gonna deprecate and it's only been in
since like the last version.
I just didn't think through the API enough, I think.
But so I wanted to take a look,
how many people are using the most recent version?
And actually, so most of the people are,
quite a few people are using the most recent version,
but it isn't most, it's a,
if I do like a total of every version,
it's definitely not most people using the most recent one,
but I don't know.
And of those, I have no idea what,
if they're using the feature or not, but anyway.
So interesting, take a look on it.
And I appreciate it.
And it's open source project as well.
And some of these graphs have been updated by a contributor.
So it's kind of nice to have it alive
and well on open source.
- Peppy.tech.
- Yeah. - Very nice.
Good find, I like it.
All right, off to our sponsor for the week.
- Yes, thank you, Microsoft,
for sponsoring this episode.
This episode is brought to you by Microsoft
for Startups Founders Hub.
Starting a business is hard, but by some estimates,
over 90% of startups will go out of business
in the first year, ouch.
With this in mind, Microsoft for Startups
set out to understand what startups need to be successful
and create a digital platform
to help overcome those challenges.
And Startups Founders Hub was born.
Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub
provides all founders at any stage
with free resources to help solve startup challenges.
The platform provides technology benefits,
access to expert guidance and skilling resources,
mentorship and network connections, and much more.
Unlike others in the industry,
Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub
does not require startups to be investor-backed
or third-party validated to participate.
It is truly open to all.
So what do you get?
You can speed up development with free access to GitHub
and the Microsoft Cloud with the ability to unlock credits over time.
To help with your startup and to help innovate, Founders Hub is partnering with
innovative companies like OpenAI, a global leader in AI research and
development, to provide exclusive benefits and discounts.
Through Founders Hub, becoming a founder is no longer about who you know.
You'll have access to their mentorship network,
giving you access to a pool of hundreds of mentors across a range of disciplines,
across areas like idea validation, fundraising, management, and coaching, sales and marketing,
as well as specific technical stress points. You'll be able to book a one-on-one meeting with
the mentors, many of whom are former founders themselves. Make your ideas a reality today with
the critical support you'll get from Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub. To join the program,
visit pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022,
or click the link in your show notes.
- Indeed, thank you, Microsoft for Startups.
Let's move over here.
So this next one comes to us
from several folks recommending it.
And to be honest, I'm not sure if I would cover it
if there wasn't a bunch of people that said,
hey, you should cover this, this is really interesting.
So I'll sort of take their lead and say,
this does look pretty interesting.
So Jeff Hutchins and Abdul Aziz Al-Khwassim sent this in.
Thank you both for sending it in.
And this is the CodeOn Python compiler.
Have you heard about this, Brian?
- Just from people submitting it, so.
- Yeah, and people talk about Python performance
all the time.
Sometimes, I would say most of the time,
it doesn't really matter to you.
Most of the time, you're spending way more time
waiting on a network, waiting on an API call,
waiting on a database.
But sometimes it really does matter
and you need your code to go faster, right?
So, traditional options have included things like Numba
or Cython or even PyPy, P-Y-P-Y
for the JIT compiled version of Python.
So here's one more thing to put into that category
of options called Codon from ExaLoop.
And it's a high-performance, zero-overhead, extensible Python compiler
using LLVM.
And LLVM is, you know, a compiler that gets used all the time, of course,
for a bunch of different things.
And they claim that it is on the order of 10 to 100 times or more faster
than regular Python for single-core performance.
And because it really compiles to some native code,
They say also, by the way, sometimes better than C++
in terms of performance.
But it also, because it compiles some native representation,
it doesn't involve the GIL, so you also get better scaling.
And it comes out of this, I think,
genetics project called SEC, bioinformatics, rather,
which is this language for bioinformatics.
And I think what they've decided is like, you know,
let's just go and just do straight Python.
Right? And if you go to exaloop.io, they've got a couple of sort of selling points here.
You know, performance SE is a Python.
It adopts Python syntax and is fully interoperable with Python.
And they've got this little flow graphic type thing,
shows your Python code.
And if you look, it's not even type annotated, which kind of surprised me, Brian.
I figured that would at least require you add, you know, Python type ins.
Yeah, but no, it says you take Python syntax and semantics and you feed it in, it builds
up an abstract syntax tree, it does some kind of type inference to figure out what the types
are like ints, comes up with an intermediate representation and then applies a bunch of
JIT style optimizations and domain specific optimizations and outcomes.
It's pretty interesting.
Native code, as I said, but also,
where does this show?
I guess it doesn't have a better picture
'cause it's cut off here.
Outcomes native code, but also WebAssembly
and GPU targeted code.
- That's cool. - Think about that.
You wanna write some code,
say this Python code does matrix stuff.
I want it to run on my NVIDIA GPU,
you know, --GPU or whatever the thing you do
to make it come out with that.
It's pretty wild.
or put it on the web with WebAssembly.
- It sounds great.
- It does sound great.
So they've got some examples.
It says, we're gonna have a list of fruits,
just three strings, banana, apple, and lime,
and some prices in a dictionary.
Banana has a price, apple has a price.
And it says, we're gonna write standard
for fruit in fruits,
F string print out the price of the fruit,
and then it's gonna put a bunch of stuff in the cart
by doing less multiplication and addition
like you would expect.
Call the sum with a comprehension and print it out
and then boom, no problem.
Compile that to native code if you want.
- Okay.
- Says if you know Python, there's nothing to learn.
Yeah, there's a bunch of, yeah, go ahead.
- Question is which Python?
It says Python syntax, but which Python syntax?
Is it 310, 39, 311?
It's not clear other than 3.6 or above,
'cause the f-strings, the only giveaway I see here.
- And possibly lots of people are fine
with not exactly knowing which version of the syntax.
- Yeah, I didn't say, I mean, maybe if you go into the docs,
it'll exactly say, right, but not in the little landing page.
It was initially dissolved
to solve computing challenges in genomics,
which is so focused on.
Also, it's got a bunch of stuff focused on finance
and GPUs for CUDA programming, as well as WebAssembly,
which is pretty dope.
- Yeah.
- Also, if you scroll down a little bit,
there's a little video.
Let me go ahead and tell it to go.
There's a video, I'll tell it to stop, I don't know,
where they show it running as a kernel in Jupyter Notebooks.
- Oh, wow.
standard Python stuff with like kind of mass intensive
things and then pulling in Matplotlib
and showing the various things you get with Matplotlib.
So yeah, it looks pretty good.
So what do you think?
- I think even if it, I'd like to know what version
of Python it's compatible with,
but other than that, it looks fun.
- It looks really good.
It's on GitHub.
- Yeah, so it is technically at least source open.
What is the license here?
The license is a business source license.
What the heck is a business source license?
Okay, from MariaDB Corp.
Yeah, I'm gonna have to figure out
what the business source license is.
I don't know.
- Just a source.
You can read the source, but it's hard.
I don't know.
- That's what I said, is it source open or is it not?
- Yeah.
And so all this stuff is good.
And the reason I'm hesitant to recommend it,
but I think these benefits are really big
and people can use it, then great.
You go a little further, it says,
Exalupin U, this is free for non-production use.
If you wanna use it for things that are commercial,
then do you know what it costs?
- Don't know, contact us.
- I don't know either.
- If you gotta ask, it's too much for you.
(laughing)
So let's just put it there.
- That's what my dad always said.
If you gotta ask, you can't afford it.
- Exactly.
Which, I don't know.
I'm not against them charging for it.
I understand this is probably an insane amount of work
to put together.
And if that's their model, that's their prerogative.
It's fine.
I don't think everything has to be given away free.
There's tons of work that goes into a lot of stuff.
And sometimes charging for it is the right answer.
but just tell people what it costs.
You know, don't make them email you.
That is, it's really not good.
- Well, so Robert mentions, Robert Robinson,
maybe it's a sliding scale and it's like,
it depends on who's asking, you know,
Microsoft calls up and asks, it's a different price than.
- I'm sure it is a different price and I'm sure that's,
oh, do you want to run that on all of Azure?
Well, here's the price, but, you know,
put some common cases in there.
Are you a data scientist and you wanna use it for an API?
Here's what it costs.
Are you trying to host it as a server?
Well, here, like then maybe need to,
like there should be at least a little bit of a,
here's the realm of where you start, right?
A lot of things have, you know, here's the base price,
here's the pro price, here's the enterprise price,
and here's the contact us if that doesn't fit you, right?
But to say it costs money,
We won't tell you what it costs.
I don't know.
It just sounds not great.
- And I help people so that the free non-production,
non-commercial versus commercial,
that's still a fuzzy line.
And I wish there was like more detail
whenever anybody does that,
because I've been in situations a lot
where I'm just some dude writing a script in a company
and the company's big,
but I just want to get this thing to work.
And it's just a small piece of my build chain or something.
I'm not gonna get okayed to do a corporate license
for something just to save me five minutes a day.
Yeah.
- Maybe you're not selling it, right?
- Yeah.
- For example.
- Yeah, that's another thing is,
is it part of the thing I'm selling
or is it just part of my work to get something else done?
- Yep, indeed.
So anyway, pluses and minuses,
but it's an interesting contribution
and thanks folks for sending that in.
- Definitely.
- Indeed.
- Well, so I wanna talk about type hints a little bit.
I've been thinking about type hints a lot
and ran across this article called
eight levels of using type hints in Python.
And it's from Yang Cho.
And first off, I love the graphic.
This is a unsplash graphic, but I'm kind of a fan of,
it looks like posters, like movie,
or like band posters or something like that
on something and then half of them are peeled off.
So cool image.
Anyway, complete side note.
But so I was attracted to this
'cause this eight state,
I thought, I kind of thought of it
as like eight stages of using type hints
'cause that's kind of how I started using type hints
and it almost got the order the same.
So let's go through these orders.
So the first one is, did I skip over it?
The first was type hints for basic data types.
So basically, and like you kind of do this
if you're using data classes at all,
you just say, well, I've got my age as an int
and it defaults to 29.
Just to kind of tell people what you're thinking about.
And while you're, you know, my posts are a tuple
and they default to an empty tuple or something.
So this is pretty much how I started as well.
And I started mostly because I started using data classes
and this is what they look like
when you're declaring the contents of a data class.
And then, so where do you go from there?
The next stage is defining a constant using final type.
Actually, I've never used this.
Have you ever used final?
- I've wanted to use it, but it's so,
it's so not exactly enforced type of thing.
It's like--
- Right, Python doesn't enforce it, but--
- I would love to have a constant in Python,
but doing it through typing means the only time
it's gonna be validated or checked
is if I run mypy or something,
and most of the time I'm not, you know?
So it's like, well, okay, whatever, I'm not doing that.
- Yeah, I'm actually increasing the amount of times
I'm using mypy or other type checking things,
But yeah, I wouldn't have put this number two,
but minor grape, it's kind of a cool feature.
- It is a cool feature though.
Yeah, I don't knock it's existence.
I just wish it was more supported in the language.
- Yeah.
The third is adding multiple type hints to one variable.
Like it shows here a couple of different ways,
the union of an int and a float or the bar of int and float.
And the number one way I use this,
I mean, I use things like this also,
like it could be an interflow,
but I mostly use it for like int or none
or something or none
because I've got a default value of none.
And I kind of wish there was another way to do it.
'Cause when you have a, I don't know,
it's kind of convenient anyway,
but like, let's say I've got a parameter to a function
And it defaults when I internally I assign it,
it defaults to none if nobody passes anything in.
But I also don't really want somebody to pass none in.
So I wish there was a, like the default is none,
but users can't pass in or something like that.
- Yeah.
- But anyway, it works.
And in the end, it helps with testing anyway,
to be able to pass in all the types.
But so yeah, the, and I've totally switched
to the bar thing.
I think it was 310 that added that.
Do you remember?
I think it was 310.
- I think it was 310.
Yeah, it says right here.
- It says there, yeah.
- Yeah.
So anything I'm writing, I support 310 and above
because I like the bar.
The next thing is using general type hints,
which also this is, yeah, I think now we're starting
to increase the stage of understanding
of how type hints can help you.
And the notion like in the example,
they use a iterable as,
as, you know, from typing import iterable.
So you say that, you know,
I'm accepting something like numbers
and it takes an iterable.
I love this use and I, you know,
it takes a little bit more of advanced use.
You get a little more comfortable with type hints
and to be able to say,
I'm gonna do iteration like for in and nums.
It doesn't really matter what it is,
if it's a list or a tuple or something else,
as long as I can iterate over it, it's good.
So, the other thing is probably,
and I'm not sure why they didn't put, is optional,
but along the same is iterable.
I like, I'm gonna often say it's iterable,
but the type inside is an int or something like that.
But anyway.
- Right.
- The fifth one is-
- You got to get a little bracket int or something like that
or a little bracket string so you know what you get out.
Yeah.
- The fifth is type hints for functions.
And I probably would have put this as like number two
'cause I started using this right away of, yeah.
Just to say, 'cause that's one of the things that's hard
when I came to Python from C++ is knowing
like where do I put the return value?
like the return type is, you know,
maybe it's multiple return types,
which I don't really want it to be,
but it's nice to be able to see what the return type is
and type hints add that with type hints for functions.
- Or you read a function, you know,
like I want to call that, but what do I do?
- Yeah.
- I'm gonna pass to it, right?
Do I have to read the function and try to understand it
or can I just read the definition, right?
I think this is one of the main uses, right?
- And it's also nice to be able to see right there,
with a union type is not a possibility.
You have to deal with nothing coming back
as something is possible.
Number six is alias for type hints.
And I kind of love this.
I haven't been using this much
but I'm gonna start using it more.
Especially it says in Python 3.10.
So before Python 3.10, you had to do
like from typing import type alias
and have this weird syntax thing around it.
but it's not really that weird.
But after 3.10, you just sort of declare a thing.
It says like post type,
posts type is a dict that goes from int to string.
That's great.
And then you can use that as a type hint in other places.
So.
- And that's interesting.
That's news to me.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
- So definitely, I'll definitely start using that.
So I'm glad I read the article for that.
Type hints for a class itself,
which I'm not sure why it was titled this,
but basically it's the self type.
And this is very helpful if you have a class,
a class that has objects that refer to other objects
of the same type.
I don't know how you did that before then.
I guess I wasn't caring about it, but.
- You had to, there was a hack where you put it into quotes.
So the example from this article is a class
called list node,
and it's gonna be past the previous node, right?
So what is the type of that?
Well, it should be a list node.
- Yeah.
is in the process of building up the list node class.
So it doesn't yet know what it is,
but you're trying to define a function that has that.
So there's this weird catch 22 thing,
chicken and egg thing.
So what you put is you would put list node in quotes.
That's the old version.
And of course it was just a string,
but then it's like, well,
but it's a string that says that.
So we're going to just guess that that's what you want.
No, it was weird.
- Okay.
Well, the eighth and final one is to provide literals
for variables and I haven't done this,
but it's kind of nice also.
And I didn't know you could do this.
Just to say, and in the example,
it's from typing import literal,
and then you define like a weekend,
that's a literal that can only be the strings,
Saturday or Sunday.
And so this isn't an enumeration,
it's just saying that it can only have
these particular values.
So I think I got that right.
I don't think it has to be an enumeration, but no, no.
So this, this is, and the, and so like the example says,
well, if you assign that variable to Monday,
it's gonna, your, your type checkers are gonna complain
because you didn't assign the one of the known ones.
And I probably would use this in conjunction with enums
or maybe I don't have to with enums, I don't know, but,
but there's a lot of stuff that is passed around
that it's kind of like an enum, but it's passed around.
is just a handful of strings that it can only
be one of these strings.
- Yeah, it'd be nice for this to support it.
Henry on the audience points out that x colon final
equals true also maps to one of these literal checks.
So is literal true rather than just a bool
so the type checker can make sure it's always true,
not true or false.
So there's an interesting tie together of those as well.
And Robert points out that it sounds like a case
of the Mondays.
- Oh, dear.
And Henry mentions that last time I checked,
self is not supported by mypy,
but so we'll have to check on that.
- Yeah.
- Anybody from mypy listening?
- Let us know.
Well, that's it for this.
I just thought it was a good,
and I do think this is a good idea
is to not try to jump in the deep end of type hints.
try some of the simple stuff first,
and then you get to caring about it.
- Yeah, that was a good little discussion around it.
That was fun.
- Yeah.
- All right, got any extras for us
you want to throw out there?
- The only extra I wanted to bring up
is the testing code hasn't had an episode
since like October or something, and it's not dead.
I just kind of wanted to take the holiday off
without telling anybody, and it's coming back.
So sometime in January, there will be a test and code episode.
Oh, excellent.
Looking forward to it.
I have a few extras, and one leads to another,
which leads to another, as is the nature of all these things.
So I ran across a couple of articles--
let me start that way--
that sort of talked about RSS and how
RSS is actually kind of important as a foundation
of the independent web in ways maybe bigger than I really
realized.
So there's this one called Back to RSS.
I'll just read a little excerpt from each of them.
It says, it's 2023 or 1999 or whatever.
Personal sites are back, blogs are back,
RSS is back and owning your data is becoming real,
which is kind of a cool thing.
And then also there's this one the same day
on the Verge called Bring Back Personal Blogging.
And yeah, anyway, so I ended up writing
a Welcome Back RSS article that kind of riffed on those ideas
and talked about some more, talked about Reader,
which I talked about before and stuff.
So yeah, anyway, people can go check out that article
and it's interesting.
And as part of the conversation,
I learned about Reader, as in reader.readthedocs.io,
which is a reader, is a Python feed reader library.
So it does things like let you subscribe
with Python to RSS and Atom and JSON feeds,
mark articles as read and important,
filter them, get stats, do all of it.
Like basically if you wanted the logical internals
of an RSS reader, here's a Python library to do that,
which is cool.
- No, what we need to do is have a listener,
like take reader and put a textual front end on it.
So we have like a-
- Yes, actually, that's a pretty interesting idea.
- That'd be cool.
- This guy over here built a thing called Kustos,
which is basically like Instapaper,
self-hosted Python web app built on Reader.
So people can check that out.
And then ReadWise looks really interesting.
Are you familiar with ReadWise?
- No.
- So it's like an RSS reader,
but it also lets you take notes,
mark stuff as read for later,
even if it doesn't have an RSS feed
and highlight like your research
as you're going through it and save it.
So think how good that would be for people that say,
do podcast, you gotta remember a bunch of stuff
about an article.
pull that thing back up and it's got your highlights
and your notes on it.
- Oh, I'm liking this.
I'm gonna have to check it out.
- Yeah, that's looking pretty good.
So anyway, all that stuff came from this little article
that I wrote, people can check that out.
- Nice.
- Another very important thing.
There's this Mastodon account called Year Progress.
And it just goes along and every day,
it just posts a progress bar for how far we are
in the daily progress.
So it's like a little ASCII, you know,
TQ, DM style progress bar of the year.
And it's just notable that we just had 100% progress
for the year.
Now that we're done, it's reset to zero, but it was 100%.
- Actually, it looks like it doesn't actually do it
every day, but it does it when it goes to a new percentage.
So it's every few days or two or three days, right?
- Yeah, yeah, it looks like it.
which I guess is probably good.
I mean, thank you for not doing it.
It's like saving 3.6, 2.6 posts, something like that.
All right.
- And don't just watch it, wait for it.
- It's not that exciting, it doesn't actually happen.
It has no decimal point, so it's not,
it's gotta work in big ASCII blocks,
so it does what it does.
All right, this is something that people might wanna keep
an ION who had automated build running over the winter break
and also used PyTorch.
So one of the thoughts I had was I was just
kind of kicking back.
We're hanging around.
I'm like, you know, I'm going to work
on some of these little weird projects.
Like, I'd like the login page on top of Python chain
to just be a little smoother and cleaner.
Maybe I'll just go play with that.
Like, I'm not really going to do real work,
but it'd be kind of fun to do some web design
just sort of like no pressure, redesign that a little bit.
And I thought, but I'm gonna be careful
about adding new libraries, updating existing ones
like pip-tools, style, update them.
Because is anybody watching?
And if something bad got in there,
would anybody know or are they all on break, right?
Well, it turns out my paranoid side was onto something,
luckily not anything I was using,
but PyTorch discloses malicious dependency chain
compromise over the holidays.
This is bad.
If you pip installed somehow the PyTorch stuff,
I don't know the exact how it links together,
but it says PyTorch has identified a malicious dependency
with the same name as the frameworks Torch Triton library.
So that was like somehow shipped or directly linked
in PyTorch in a way that I don't fully understand
'cause I don't use it.
But what happened is on Merry Merry Christmas,
on December 25th, users who installed PyTorch nightly
should ensure their systems are not compromised
because of this Triton torch.
What they did is somebody put a malicious version on PyPI
and when PyTorch was getting set up,
instead of picking its own version,
it preferred the PyPI version, which was a virus.
So anyway, people can check that out.
It's sub-ideal.
Since the PyPI index takes precedence,
this malicious package was being installed
instead of the version from the official repository.
This enables somebody to register a package
to do bad things.
Anyway, people can read all about that,
but if you have PyTorch and you pip installed it
over the point of break, read that.
- Yeah.
Plus, kudos for them for coming up
with a great domain name, bleepingcomputer.com.
- Yes, I know, bleepingcomputer.
There's a lot of good articles on bleepingcomputer.
It's in my RSS feed.
All right, well, that's all I got for extras.
How about a joke?
- Yeah, that sounds great.
- So first of all, let me,
I don't wanna kill the punchline before we set the stage.
Okay, so I pulled up just the picture.
Can you tell people what this is on the screen, Brian?
You remember these things?
- Well, remember, they're still there.
on my laptop. Not on my Mac Mini.
Okay, it's on the back of like a computer or something. A desktop
computer. Next to the power cord. There's a toggle switch
with a on and off toggle switch for
Right, it's like a physical power button directly on the
power supply on a desktop computer, right? Yep. Yeah. And
Robert, Robert got it exactly right. So here is the joke. They
They finally made a switch to exit Vim.
(laughing)
And they've highlighted that physical power button
on the back of the power supply.
- Nice.
- You're a Vim lover, so I won't run into too much,
but that's a pretty effective way to exit Vim.
- Vim runs in a window, so just close the window.
- A funny thing about power switches.
So I used to work with a lot of,
so I work with embedded systems
and some of them run Windows embedded.
And embedded systems are supposed to be able
to toggle the power off just like from the power supply.
And now normal Windows, you're not supposed to do that
because you wanna let it shut down gracefully.
And if the disk is moving at the time,
and there's even with Windows embedded,
there's some issues or any embedded operating system,
there are a possibility you could do some damage to the disk
if you power off at exactly the right time.
But there's supposed to be safeguards in place
to take care of it.
So I'm just in the habit of using these things all the time
of like toggle off and on.
And if we get like a new batch of people
in that are mostly from DevOps or from non-embedded worlds,
they're like, "What are you doing?"
- You're gonna break it.
Yeah, you're gonna break it.
Like, no, these are good.
- Yeah.
So that's awesome.
Yeah, my little circuit Python thing,
it doesn't have a power switch.
You just disconnect it from power if you want it off.
That's how it works.
- Well, and one of the reasons,
now I'm going in the weeds,
but one of the reasons for the need
for the ability to just power off
is 'cause a lot of times instruments are in a huge rack
and you don't go through
and power off each individual instrument.
You just turn the rack off.
>> Wow, interesting. Cool.
Well, it's good to be back in 2023.
>> Yeah, it is good to be back.
Welcome back and thanks everybody for tuning in.
>> Yeah, you bet. Bye all.
>> Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]